### Part 1. Fundamentals of Computer Vision
	
 
Almost every being on the earth has some way to sense light. Even some bacteria and single-celled organisms have some simple ways to detect it.  Humans are not any different. We use our eyes to give us information about the world. The images formed in our retina are what we use as input to make decisions. We are so used to this process that on a day-to-day basis, we don’t realize how much we use our brains to understand the world. 

If you ever unexpectedly kicked a ball, your unconscious brain performed several tasks in a split second. It was able to correctly identify the ball, track its movement, predict its trajectory, calculate the speed at which the ball would arrive at your location, predict your foot trajectory, adjust the strength and angle of impact, and send the signal from your brain to your foot to adjust its trajectory. It is the process of taking an image (in this case, the signal that is received by our retina) and transforming it into information (kicking the ball) that is at the core of computer vision.

In more general terms, computer vision tries to extract meaningful information from images. This is a really hard task because computers have no previous knowledge of the world. In our example, we start knowing what a ball is, how to track its movement, how objects usually move in space, how to estimate when the ball will reach us, where is your foot, how a foot moves, and how to estimate how much force you need to hit the ball. We take our understanding of the world for granted, but for our computers, images are just a bunch of related numbers.

Albeit they have similar input and output, human vision and computer vision are different processes. Sometimes they might have some overlap, just like how some branches of artificial intelligence and human cognition do. However, computer vision is primarily concerned with the development of algorithms and models in artificial vision systems and the decisions they make. It is not defined by its similarity to human vision. Due to its nature, computer vision can be more accurate and faster than its human counterparts. Thus, it is used for problems that would be too tedious, time-consuming, expensive, or error-prone for humans to do.

As a field, computer vision has a growing importance in society. There are many ethical considerations regarding its applications. For example, a model that is deployed to detect cancer can have terrible consequences if it classifies a cancer sample as healthy. Surveillance technology, such as models that are capable of tracking people, also raises a lot of privacy concerns. This will be discussed in more detail in chapter 14- Applications of computer vision and real-world use cases. 

[After more proper definition of computer vision]

Just as it is hard to draw a line that separates artificial intelligence and computer vision, it is also hard to separate image analysis and computer vision. A tentative definition is that the input and output of image analysis are always an image. However, this is a myopic take. Even simple tasks, such as calculating the medium value of an image, would be classified under computer vision. To clarify their differences, we must introduce the concept of image understanding.  Image understanding is the process of making sense of the content of an image. It can be defined in three different levels : 
Low-level processes are primitive operations on images (i.e. image sharpening, changing the contrast). The input and the output are images.
Mid-level processes include segmentation, description of objects, and object classification. The input is an image, but the output is attributes associated with the image.
High-level processes include making sense of the entirety of an image, i.e recognition of a given object, and scene reconstruction, image-to-text. These are tasks typically associated with human cognition.

	Image analysis is mostly concerned with low and mid-level processes. However, computer vision is interested in mid- and high-level processes. Thus, there is an overlap in the mid-level processes between image analysis and computer vision. It is important to keep this in mind since for data-poor scenarios or for simple images, it might not be appropriate to allocate resources for the development of a fancier model such as a neuronal network. From a business point of view, model development costs time and money, it is necessary to know when to use the right tools. 
It is also not unusual to combine a “pre-processing” part before moving on to a more robust model. Or, on the opposite side, sometimes, the layers of a neural network automatically perform tasks like these, eliminating the need for explicit pre-processing. For those familiar with data science, image analysis might act as a first exploratory data analysis step. Lastly, classical image analysis methods can also be used for data augmentation to improve the quality and diversity of training data for computer vision models. 

The complexity of a given task in the realm of image analysis and computer vision is not solely determined by how noble or difficult a question or task may seem to an informed audience. Instead, it primarily hinges on the inherent properties of the image or data being analyzed. Take, for example, the task of identifying a pedestrian in an image. To a human observer, this might appear straightforward and relatively simple, as we are adept at recognizing people. However, from a computational perspective, the complexity of this task can vary significantly based on factors such as lighting conditions, the presence of occlusions, the resolution of the image, and the quality of the camera. In low-light conditions or with pixelated images, even the seemingly basic task of pedestrian detection can become exceedingly complex for computer vision algorithms, requiring advanced image enhancement and machine learning techniques. Therefore, the challenge in image analysis and computer vision often lies not in the inherent nobility of a task, but in the intricacies of the visual data and the computational methods required to extract meaningful insights from it.
